Here we are in our favor browser at Unity.
Here we'll download the Unity editor and get started.
The Get started has several different pricing plans here.
Unity, personal or Unity student are a great fit to get started for free for professional use.
There's other plans available as well.
I'm on a Windows machine so I'll download for Windows.
I've downloaded Unity, open up the installer and we'll continue through the setup experience.
Once setup is complete, I'll open the Unity Hub.
The Unity Hub helps us install the Unity editor different versions if we like as well as create an open
projects.
I'll create a new project.
Unity offers many different templates.
The key here is that we want to use the latest unity version called ELTs.
This changes over time, but unity clearly shows this is the version which receives long term support.
And it's typically the latest public release.
The default template that unity shows.
Here is the three D core.
Many MVCs is compatible with many of these different templates, so we can choose freely.
But I'll go with the default here.
I'll call the project calculator mini and install it in my favorite folder.
Each time you create a new project, Unity will make all the installation files and dependencies set
up for you following the URL provided in the course in the resources section.
We'll come here to GitHub and click the code button.
We want to capture this git URL which we'll use to import the mini and VCs into unity.
Once the project is created, Unity opens up and gives us the default display.
This template comes with a sample scene, which is a great place to begin.
Next, we'll open up the package manager and install Mini and VCs.
We'll add a package from the get URL paste in the URL we got from GitHub.
Once mini NBC's is installed, you can optionally install the samples as well, especially when getting
started.
I highly recommend doing that.
You may find that one of the samples is similar enough to your intended goals and you can begin with
it either copying and pasting or using it as reference.
In our case, we're not going to import the samples, we're going to work from scratch.
With one exception.
I'll use a template file which I can copy and paste just to keep our classes looking consistent and
readable.
The mini NBC's package comes with a template.
I'll copy it into our assets folder and open it up using consistent coding standards or a coding template
like this is optional.
I recommend each team consider it based on their own goals.
For the purposes of this discussion, I'm using it just to keep my code consistent and to make it more
readable for you.
I'll copy and paste this to start new classes.
It has the class definition an example property and example field and more.
Let's think about our project file structure.
I like the scene folder.
I'll just rename our scene.
My convention is that I create a script folder in the assets and create a runtime editor and test folder
within.
Then because we're working with many, I like to create dedicated folders for the mini structure as
well as a folder for the model view controller and service.
In this case, we're not going to be creating a service, but I'll leave the folder there in case in
the future.
Adding a service makes sense now.
I'll set up the scene hierarchy and create our first script.
The default scene structure provided by Unity is one main camera and one directional light.
My own personal preference is to put those into a world game object so I can hide the complexity there.
Now create one game object for the example itself.
That's the one mono behavior which kicks off the process.
I'll give it the name calculator, mini example and I'll give it a script of the same name.
Here's the starting point for the new file.
As Unity creates it, we'll paste in that class template and update it properly.
Here's the updated file.
Let's take a look.
I gave it a namespace specific to this sample project.
I match the class name to the file name and I think about what code will need to get started here.
We'll just need a start method in which we're going to create the mini.
Let's go create the class file for the Mini and come back.
I'll duplicate the class template and create the calculator mini class.
Here we are in the calculator mini class.
Now we'll use the first classes from our framework.
We have an option here for the main mini if we want to extend the mini MVCs base class or use an interface.
Now, because we're not using any service layer, it makes sense to use an interface that gives us more
flexibility.
So here we'll implement AI Mini and VCs.
Each code editor expresses it in a different way.
Here in my editor, it shows a red squiggly indicating something is wrong.
I'll check the context menu because I've chosen to implement an interface, but I haven't actually done
the implementation yet.
The code editor offers to do that for me, and as we're going forward, I'll do this workflow.
I'll choose to implement those missing members.
I'll leave all checked by default.
Let's take a look at the result.
We've got an initialized property and some initialization related methods.
We now have enough code in the calculator mini to jump back to the example and finish it up.
So here in the calculator mini example in its start method, we'll finish up coding.
Here.
We've created an instance of the calculator mini and called initialize.
That's all we need here.
In this example file, let's keep going in the calculator mini class itself.
So as you're getting used to using the mini and VCs framework, this is a great chance for you to take
a look at other sample projects just to follow along and see how the structure is.
But I'll think out loud.
What we need from the Mini is which of the concerns it's going to care for.
So we'll have to declare those, we'll initialize those concerns and if needed, we'll wire them up
together.
I'll go ahead and do that now.
So if we're not already initialized we'll initialize.
And then I stubbed out or put some temporary comments where the code will go.
We create the model, the controller and initialize them.
You may remember from earlier sample projects that because our view is going to extend mono behavior
and sit in the scene hierarchy, we'll set that up in a different way.
Here my code editor is indicating red, which means, hey, those classes don't exist, so let's go
create them.
Now.
I'll copy the class template for the basic structure of what we need.
I've created the classes for the model view and controller.
Let's take a look.
Here's the model class.
I gave it a namespace and updated the class title but didn't add the implementation yet.
Here's the calculator view class and here's the calculator controller class.
Now that we at least have the basics of those classes constructed.
Let's go back and fix any compiler errors back here in the calculator mini class.
We've got a few errors to solve while we created these classes.
Now it can't be located yet.
We right click and see that the editor recognizes them but needs a using statement.
Those classes are now working properly, but they lack the initialize.
Let's start putting some real code in each of those class files because the calculator model has base
functionality.
We'll extend base model.
Base model comes with initialize.
So that's all we need to do here.
For now for the calculator controller, we're going to want some custom functionality again because
we're not using service.
Now as a side point, we could certainly use the base controller and create a service which is empty
and we don't really need it.
If you think in the future you're definitely going to need a service at some point.
That's not a bad solution.
But for the sake of this project, because we know we don't need a service right now, I'll use an interface
instead we implement my controller, choose to implement the missing members.
I'll leave the default settings here and let's take a look at the results we get.
Initialize context and some initialization methods.
That's all we need for now.
As we go through this, we'll step through adding just enough implementation, always returning to the
most parent concept here, the Calculator Mini and seeing what the next logical step is for implementation.
An alternative approach would be to completely develop the model, then completely develop the view
in the controller and then do the mini MVCs as a final step.
You can proceed in whichever way makes sense to you, but for the purpose of this discussion, we'll
keep returning to this class here and solving the challenges that pop up.
So both the model and the controller are expecting a context, So let's create that now by passing in
those context values, I think we've solved all the compiler errors.
For now, let's return to unity and check our progress.
Here we are in unity with no compilation errors.